# Project-Tender-recommendation-simulation
Summer 2021  IMA Math-to-Industry Bootcamp Project for C.H. Robinson

Our team was tasked with building a generative parametric model of C.H. Robinson's order decision process which could be leveraged to test new recommendation algorithms for the improvement of the current Recommender System. This model should be generative in the sense that it generates synthetic data which is similar to actual historical order data of C.H. Robinson in terms of distribution and capturing the relationships between variables. The data set provided by C.H. Robinson to train our model consisted of the following: time information (week_id, weekday, lead_days), order information (order_distance, order_origin_weight, order_num_stops, order_equipment_type), location information (origin_dat_ref, dest_dat_ref), Recommender System output (color), monetary information (rate_norm, est_cost_norm), and the company's final decision on an order (CurrentCondition). Though the origin and destination information of orders had been generalized to the DAT KMA (Dial-a-Truck Key Market Area) level in the form of 3-digit zip codes, we chose to further generalize origin and destination of orders to the DAT Zip Zone level. DAT designates ten Zip Zones in the United States, labeled Z0 through Z9. When examining the order volume associated with each possible Zip Zone origin and destination pair, our analysis indicated that the highest concentration of orders (nearly 14,000) had as both origin and destination Z3, followed by orders from Z9 to Z9 and then orders from Z7 to Z7. Thus, we decided to only consider the subset of orders from Z3 to Z3 to train our first model. We later examined the second and third most common pairs, as well.

We sought to use Bayesian methods in the design of this model. Before constructing the model, we had to determine the order of generation of our variables. We chose to assume independence of all order information except rate, cost, Recommender System output, and the company's final decision on an order. However, based on our choice to focus on a specific Zip Zone origin and destination pair when generating synthetic data, one might view these independent variables as in fact dependent upon choice of Zip Zone pair.

After generating the independent variables of our model, our next step was to generate rate and cost from a subset of these variables. Next, rate and cost was used to generate the Recommender System's output; and finally, the company's final decision was generated from rate, cost, and the Recommender System's output. Lastly, we used the K-prototype clustering algorithm to test how well our generated data mixed with the true historical data of C.H. Robinson. The results of this algorithm indicated that our generated data was largely indistinguishable from the original data, suggesting that our generative model was performing well.
